In this post, Vividh Bharati works, what is the history of what happens, you are going to tell through this post.

Vividh Bharati, India's most popular and oldest broadcasting center, Vividh Bharati has become the heart of a people. This post is going to give you information about Vividh Bharati.







Friends Vividh Bharati is a popular radio station in India. Where programs such as songs, music, news, drama, conversation are conducted. They transmit these broadcasts to the people through radio, even today people like it a lot.


Vividh Bharati has become an inspirational program for the people.  People call it shops, houses, vehicles, offices, workstations, railway station.  You will find Vividh Bharati at many such places.


Programs like Film song, New Advertising are run through Vividh Bharati.

Today Vividh Bharati has emerged in front of people in many languages. He likes it from big to small. Tells you about the history and program of Vividh Bharati.



The history of Vividh Bharati


Considered a public service center in Vividh Bharati, this radio channel Akashvani is considered a major service center. We consider Vividh Bharati a public and popular service, in which they playsongs of Hindi films with more importance.


They started Vividh Bharati on 3 October 1957. Think about how old Vividh Bharati is.  And the year 2006-2007 is also celebrated as Vividh Bharati Swarna Jayanti.  When Vividh Bharati was started, they broadcast it in only two centers, Mumbai and Madras.  They broadcast it in India from only two places.


Later, as the listeners of Vividh Bharati grew, so Akashwani started running it even more.  Through Akashwani, many programs of Vividh Bharati became popular.  And its centers were opened everywhere, and it became the famous radio center of India.

As an advertising service of All India Radio, Vividh Bharati narrates programs to its listeners.  


It is a favorite radio channel of several Hindi languages ​​in India.  Even before and after coming to Durdarshan, its audience did not decrease.  This channel still airs in Akhil Bharti.



It broadcasts some information


Radio broadcasting started in India on 23July 1927. After India's independence, an extensive network of several radio stations was set up.  These radio channels are used to entertain people through entertainment and news across the country.  And at some point, Akashwani film songs were rooted in some reason.


All the actors of the film world started showing interest in this Vividh Bharati and started writing songs.In those days, the foreign service of Sri Lanka Brocksteinstein Corporation, which was known as Puri Duniya Radio Ceylon. It used to play more Hindi Geetmal film songs, which were popular.


AIR Director General Girijakumar Mathur and Pandit Narendra Sharma, along with Gopaldas, Keshav Pandit, and other associates formed an all India entertainment service. And they gave it the fun program of Vividh Bharati Akashwani.


Some special programs were to be run in this Vividh Bharati.  After all the preparation, the Indian radio service was started in Mumbai on 3 October 1957.  The first song played on vividh Bharti was written by Pandit Narendra Sharma and Sangeet Vishwas gave it. Famous singer Manna Dey the song. This song is still available with Vividh Bharati.


Sheel Kumar made the first announcement of All India Vividh Bharati.  Later, Amin Sahani name was added to it. The Vividh Bharati Seva Kendra was in Mumbai, they called capable manufacturers from all over the country for Vividh Bharati.  So that this service of Akashwani should become popular as soon as it starts.



Some interesting information


Vividh Bharati is actually a translation of the English Millennium into Hindi.  Narendra Sharma named it when he was called as an officer in radio from film writing in the 50s. When Vividh Bharati was started, many people started with this program.  Many people started giving it a lot of likes and they started giving incentives. Many countries of the world got to know through Vividh Bharati.



Old programs of Vividh Bharati


Started from Vividh Bharati, then some special programs were presented for malaria of the people.  This program is very popular even today, and people like to listen to it with more fervor.


1 HawaMahal


Hawamahal is a popular event, but HawaMahal used to be a favorite of many people.  They presented HawaMahal as a play.  It aired at 9:30 pm, in which well-known film actors played their roles in this program and people were happy to hear it.


2 Jaymala program


Jaymala program was the most famous program, it was a program for the young soldiers of the country.  In this program, many film stars used to give messages to the soldiers and used to tell them their favorite songs. 


In this program, soldiers used to carry their message to their home and used to sing their favorite songs.  This program is presented especially for the soldiers. Vividh Bharati soldiers became a favorite, and the country became a popular program.


3 Bella ke Fool program


The black people of Bella's flowers started liking it, some old gits used to do books in it. This program aired at 11:00 pm and its songs were very pleasant. They present old songs even today, and people still like to listen to it.


4 Aapki Farmaish


Aapki farmaish was made a glorious program of popular and diverse Bharti. In this program, people used to write their favorite songs in a letter, and according to that, the song was sung. Later, he used to tell his favorite songs from the phone call to tell his favorite songs.



New programs of Vividh Bharati


With the changing days, Vividh Bharati has also changed a lot. Once upon a time, programs of Vividh Bharati used to be narrated through the tape, but today's era is something else. Later these programs were broadcast through satellites. Today it presents immediately any fresh event on Vividh Bharati.


1 Pitara


They included new programs on Vividh Bharati (Pitara) before they started this program in 1996. This program became a source of information and entertainment in some ways.  They presented different programs daily in Pitara.  


They based the program on Pitara, the star of the film world, on his life story.  In the same way, I have also based these programs on women.


2 Sakhi Saheli


Sakhi Saheli program is specially designed for women, this program is famous all over the country. Earlier no such program was made, especially for women, but later women's special program Sakhi Saheli was made.  


Seeing the popularity of the program, they organized a program of Hello Sakhi. In this program, Sakhi tells her mind to Sakhi.


3 youth Express


Vividh Bharati has organized a program for today's youth. This program has been started a few years ago, social information in this program. Preparatory instructions for examinations are some issues of career guidance and interest of youth. This program has become very popular in a few years. The phone can connect this program or by email.


4 Ujala unki yaadon ke


Vividh Bharati has always won the hearts of the listeners and will always remain in their minds. It is the only channel in the country that has considered music as its religion and everything. And every music has a place in its program. Vividh Bharati is a unique radio channel that has settled in people's minds.


Vividh Bharati is the only channel where you will get the recording of songs from old to new.  Even today, the number of songs recorded in the film world is so much.  That you will not get so much recording and anywhere as Vividh Bharati has been retained even today.  


From the old hero to the new hero, from the old heroine to the new heroine, every film of celebrities has a recording of Vividh Bharati.


Because of this Vividh, Bharati has organized a new program Ujale unki yaadon ke.  They based this program on the biography of the film celebrities, in which they discussed the long talk of the actor.  


Whom people loved to listen to.

Hope you have liked some information about Vividh Bharati.  


Vividh Bharati has become a popular and entertainer, and inspiration provides us with Vividh Bharati.  And Vividh Bharati should always be in the hearts of such people. We all like Vividh Bharati.


https://www.indiaknowlage.com/2020/06/what-is-political-map-in-india-with.html







